Now that we have our Prisma database set up
we need to work on the GraphQL Yoga side of things.
And I know I've explained it a couple times,
but I found that it took me more than a few times
to understand sort of what's going on here.
So, Prisma, we give it our data model
and it's going to create a set of CRUD APIs
and if we go to the generated prisma.graph QL
you'll know that if we'd look at our mutations
we have all of these create user, update user, delete user,
upsert user, and if we look for the query
in here,
there we go,
we get users, user connection,
and all of the ones that we looked at, right?
However, we can't use that directly via JavaScript
because there is no sort of security layer,
there's no authentication layer,
and most importantly, there is no layer
that we can add on custom logic.
We're simply able to create, read, update, delete
and provide relationships between our data
and in order to add things, like,
well let's take a look at our thing here,
a customs server site logic, we want to
charge credit cards, if we want to send email,
if we want to hash any passwords
before we actually save them to that,
if we want to have permissions where different layers
of people can do different things.
There's a whole section of logic that needs to happen,
before that data is actually either pulled from
or put into the Prisma DB and that's exactly
what we're using GraphQL Yoga for.
So, we're going to go ahead and do that.
The first thing that we wanna do
is create a new file inside of our...
Here, let me open up my files right here.
Inside of our source directory,
I want you to create a DB.js file.
So inside of SRC create a DB.js.
And this is where we're actually going to do
the connecting to our Prisma DB, right?
Because in order to query this database inside
of our GraphQL Yoga layer, like we're going to query...
Let me back up here.
So our react JS is going to use Apollo Client
to query our GraphQL Yoga end point
and then on the server, GraphQL Yoga is gonna connect to
our Prisma database and pull the data back and forth.
Similar to how if we were building like
an express application you might have like
a Mongo DB here and your controller
is going to query your Mongo DB
and then return the data to the client.
So, the DB.js is what we're going to connect directly to it
and that's going to be using something called prisma-binding
And this is just JavaScript bindings for the Prisma database
And it's going to allow us to do things like this
where we can connect to a database
and then we can query things like a user,
we can run mutations like a create user,
all of the things that we're doing from the playground,
this is how we're gonna be able to do it in JavaScript.
So first thing we're going to do is open that up.
And we're going to import Prisma from the prisma-binding.
So const Prisma equals require Prisma-binding.
You may say, 'Hey Wes. Why are we using require
on the server whereas on the front end we're using import?'
And that's because at the time of recording
and probably at least for six to twelve more months yet
there is no import in Node.js,
it's kind of up in the air and
it's nowhere near production ready.
So, on the server we are using require.
I know you can use Babel to transpile it
or ESM to import it but all that stuff is
constantly moving, so we are using
the latest standard Node.js and the require.
So, const Prisma equals require,
and then we are going to make our database
and we just call a new Prisma from there
and that will take a couple of things.
TypeDefs is one of them, and the type definitions
is that generated prisma.graph QL, right?
It needs to know what all of the different types,
queries and mutations are in order to use it.
So we have to feed it this Prisma.graph QL file.
And that's exactly why we pull it down
from the Prisma in that post deploy hook
is so that we can feed it into this.
So, we're going to to say it's available
in source, generated, prisma.graphql.
Then we also need to give it access to our Prisma database.
Like, where does our Prisma database live?
And remember, that's in our variables.env file.
This is exactly why we put it in a variables.env file
so we can pull it into multiples.
So, rather than copy pasting this URL
all throughout our application,
we just refer back to this file.
So, the way that you can access your environmental variables
in Node.js is, we'll say, endpoint is equal to, you say,
process.env. and you can have access to
any of the environmental variables.
In our case it's Prisma_endpoint.
The secret, so access to it,
remember that we had temporarily left off the...
If we open up the Prisma.yml,
remember we temporarily left the secret off.
If you put it on in production
then that's kind of like the password for your database
so you need to be able to access that
and that's why we pass the secret
when we're connecting to the database right here.
And again, for that, we'll do process.env.PRISMA_SECRET
And then finally, there's a debug,
and you can turn that to true or false.
And if you have that as true, it's going to
consult that log, all of the queries and mutations.
So, I like to turn that on and off.
I'll leave it as off and then,
if I'm ever having specific trouble, I'll turn it on.
Some people also like to just have it on in development
and off in production, but I find that it's a bit noisy
in my console, so I only turn on if I specifically need it.
Finally, we need to export this database
so that we can pull it into some of our other files.
So, say, module.exports is equal to the database.
Good. So this is the file here.
Let's leave a little comment up here.
This file connects to the remote PRISMA DB
and gives us the ability to query it with JavaScript.
Alright, so that's the database.
Next thing that we need to do is
we actually need to create the Yoga server.
So, I'm gonna create a secondary file in the source.
We're gonna call it createServer.js.
Lower case C. Capital S.
And this is where we're gonna import
the GraphQL Yoga server, and if you're wondering
what GraphQL Yoga is, I know that we explained like
why we use it, but GraphQL Yoga is an express server.
So if you have any other Express middlewares,
and we are going to be building some middlewares ourself,
you can use all of those, this also sits on top of
something that's called Apollo server.
So, let's just do a quick Google for it.
It's a fully featured GraphQL server with a focus
on easy set-up, performance and great developer.
Even with this tutorial I feel like
there is a lot of set-up, and we're using a lot
of tools that expediate this set-up.
I think that there is a lot of stuff going on here.
And they have some good FAQs, which is Apollo server.
So it's built on top of Express and Apollo server.
So, it's not instead of using Express or Apollo server.
But all of these things would be required
in order to get a GraphQL server up and running
and GraphQL Yoga sort of packs them all into
one single package, which is fantastic.
So, we're going to import the GraphQL server.
And that's going to be from the GraphQL Yoga package.
Then we also need to import what are called our resolvers.
And resolvers answer the question,
Where does this data come from?
Or, where does this data or
what does this data do in the database?
And there's two different kinds of resolvers.
You have query resolvers, which is when you pull data.
And you have mutation resolvers,
which is when you push data and put it into it.
So, we have two separate files.
One is called mutation.js,
and another one is called query.js
and any time we want to expose an API,
and sort of like expose an end point
or make people be able to query users,
or query items, or add something to their cart,
or add an item, or delete an item,
we are going to write either a query resolver,
when someone wants to pull data,
or a mutation resolver when somebody wants to push data.
So, I just noticed this one's capital Q.
Let's make that a capital M. It doesn't actually matter,
but just for consistency's sake let's do that.
So, we're going to import both of those.
These are just objects, we obviously
haven't written anything in these files.
So we'll go back and fill them out
as we build out the application.
So, we want to grab the mutation and the query.
So, const mutation equals require,
and that's in the resolvers/mutation.js and query.js.
Make sure those have capitals,
cos the files have capitals on them.
And then we also want to pull in
that database file that we just created.
So const db equals require db.
Now we go ahead and create the GraphQL Yoga server.
And this is what we're gonna be interfacing with
our GraphQL, so let's make a function called createServer.
And let's just go ahead and export that immediately.
So, module exports is equal to createServer.
And then inside of here we are
going to return a new GraphQL server.
And that takes a couple options,
very similar to the database, it needs typeDefs again.
And then the typeDefs are gonna come from a
another file that we're creating.
And this may seem like a lot and that's because it is.
We have to have, we're essentially creating
two GraphQL servers here, right?
We have our Prisma server which requires
it's own type definitions and schema
and everything like that, and then
we also have our GraphQL server which
needs it's own schema and type definitions as well.
So, we're gonna create another file here in our source,
and we're going to call that schema.graphql.
And this is going to contain all of our
queries and resolves, and we are going to be able to
share some data between Prisma and Yoga,
so we're not duplicating ourselves too, too much.
So, that is in the source folder, /schema.graphql
And then there's a couple options
we really need to pass here.
First, the resolvers are going to be mutation and query.
So the property is mutation and the value
is the mutation that we imported but because of ES6,
if it's the same thing we can just simply
pass mutation and same goes for query.
That is resolvers; make sure you put an S on the end there.
A couple of other options that we need to have
is resolver validation options.
This is just a weird one; I was getting some errors.
In order to turn off those errors or warnings
we need to say require resolvers for resolve type.
Require resolvers for resolve type is going to be false.
And then finally, we need to give it
something called context.
And this will make sense why we're doing this
as we get into a lot of the user and authentication items.
We need to be able to access the database
from the resolvers, and the way that you can pass that
is via context, so you just have to type request
and we're going to return an object which has
the request in it and the database.
So we want to surface this database on every single request.
And that will all make sense once we get into it.
Now, so we've created our database, we've created a function
that will spin up a new GraphQL server.
We've created our empty schema.graphql.
A lot of our code is going to do in here
in terms of what our client facing types,
queries and mutations are going to be.
And now we actually need to kick start it in our index.js
So in the source folder there is an index.js file here.
It just says let's go.
We are going to write some code that as,
this is going to start up our Node server.
So say require. The first thing we want to do is
make sure that these variables that we put in variables.env,
we wanna make sure that these are
available to our application, and this is
since this is the entry point of our application,
this is where we require this variables.env.
So, let's close all these other files.
I feel like there's a lot going on here.
We're going to require the package called .env.
And you can configure it with,
saying path,
that's going to be variables.env.
Then we want to import that create server function
that we just made, equals require, createServer.
We want to import the database that we created.
So const db equals require database,
And there's a few other things that we need to do in here,
in terms of authentication, but we are
going to be coming back to them as we run into that.
So, first thing we wanna do is say
const server is equal to createServer.
So, we stored the function in a separate file.
We run that function and store it
in a variable called server, then this is where
it will say TODO use Express middleware to handle cookies.
And TODO use Express middleware to populate current user.
And we'll put JWT in there, in quotes there,
because we're gonna be using JSON web tokens
via cookies and that will all make sense
why we're doing that when we hit the server-side rendering
and authenticated routes section of this course.
So, we'll come back and fill those in,
but all we need to do here now is call server.start
and a couple options we need to pass here.
First one is cors, we only want this end point
to be able to be visited from our approved URLs.
So you don't want anybody willy-nilly
hitting your end point from any website,
you only want our specific website from hitting that.
So the cors say credentials is true
and the origin is going to be,
and again, this is our variables.env,
you see how I have put the front end URL in here,
and if we hop over to our front end real quick,
and open up our package.JSON,
you see our next server is running on port 7777
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna say,
Okay, only this front end can access it on our back end here
So we will grab that value from our environmental variables
So process.env.FRONTEND_URL
And then we get a call back function
for when it actually runs
And I just say like the deets of the server starting.
And I'll say console log, back tick,
Server is now running on port.
And I like to actually do http
local host,
colon,
deets.port.
And that will make a clickable link from the URL there.
Give it a save. Alright. So, let's do a quick review there.
We created our database in DB.js
We made a function called createServer,
which will ingest a schema.graphql.
And then it will match up everything in the schema
with either a mutation or a query resolver.
We exposed the data base to every single request.
Again, that will make more sense once we actually
hit writing some of these custom resolvers.
Then, in our index, we spin up a
actual version of this GraphQL Yoga server
We hold off on the authentication middleware,
in Express, just for a bit, and then we start it up.
So if everything went right, we should be able to,
Well, let's look at our package.JSON
We should be able to run npm run debug or npm run dev
And let's take a second to unpack all of these server-side,
the back end scripts that we have here.
So, first of all, debug is how we start the actual server.
Or start is how you actually start the server.
I like to use debug locally,
and I'll tell you why in just a second.
So we're using a package called Nodemon
and what Nodemon will do is it will monitor
your JavaScript files for changes
and if there ever is a change in that file
it will kill the server and restart it
so you don't have to manually kill it and restart it
yourself every single time that you make a change.
This dash e will make sure that we
monitor the extensions.js and .graphql.
Normally, with Nodemon, you don't actually need
to say what file extensions you want to watch,
but because we also want to kill the server any time
we change a graphql file, we specify that.
The x is what Nodemon should actually be running.
And we're gonna run the command node source.index.
So we're basically running Node index.js.
And then we also pass at this inspect flag
Which is going to allow us to use
Chrome dev tools to see our console results
rather than just seeing them dumped into our terminal.
And then, other, we have this thing called playground.
And what playground will do is it will open up
either, it will automatically open up that playground
that we were looking at before
or you can also download the desktop application
of GraphQL playground and it will open that up for you.
So let's go to our back end here.
And, where are we? I've got to go into my back end.
And the command that we actually want to run
is npm run dev and that is both going to run
in turn, debug, and playground.
So let's try it. Npm run dev.
(mimics buzzer noise) Didn't work.
You see my GraphQL playground is opening up here
It seems to work but it says cannot find module createServer
This error is happening in...
These errors are a little bit hard to actually find out
and I had to read for a minute or so to only figure out,
okay, this is actually where it's happening.
It's happening on index.js on line two.
So, let's go back to index.js on line two.
Oh, it's because we, I required createServer as a package,
this is a file that we made.
So what we want to do it make it relative
to where we are with a dot forward slash.
Give that a save, you see how Nodemon restarts itself.
Another error here. Cannot parse unexpected error.
Character forward slash, I think that has to do with us
not having something in our schema.graphql
So let's just go ahead and type user
and we'll say ID is equal to an ID
and the name is going to be a string
So let's just give it our starting type of user.
Give that a save.
And one more error that it's giving.
Error mutation defined in resolvers but not in schema
Ah, I see. So what's happening here is that
when we started up our actual server, we created it
we said that we have resolvers for mutation and query
but it can't find any mutations and any queries.
So what we're gonna do is, we'll just kinda
pad it for now. So type mutation,
and it might still yell at us for being empty. Let's see.
Yeah, unexpected name found. Curly brackets.
So type mutation, let's just say, hi returns a string
And it should tell us, yeah, now it tells us
the same thing happened for query.
So let's just copy, paste that, type query.
There we go. So, we had to...
We can get rid of this type user, right now.
We just have to give it something that it can resolve to
because what happens when you create the server,
Let's go back to the create server
Is that it says, okay, here's my type definitions
and here are the things I want you to resolve.
So first of all that file can't be empty,
and second of all it needs both a mutation and a query type
to resolve to, and that's exactly what we have here.
We'll come back and fill those out with
actual ones that we have, but for now
we know everything seems to be working pretty well.
It says server is now running on local host 4444.
If we visit that in our browser,
you should see the the GraphQL playground up and running
and there is not going to be anything in our schema
except for the fake ones that we
actually have put here, right?
And I think that's pretty interesting
because it's not going to expose everything from
the actual Prisma API just yet
because you might not necessarily want to expose
all of that, we're just going to selectively expose
the pieces that we want and write our own resolvers for this
So here we have our query and mutation
Nothing is going to be returned yet
But in the next video that's exactly
what we're going to be doing.